# Cleaning-and-analysis-of-instrumented-bicycle-data
GPS data, obtained through a satellite-based positioning acquisition system which are the most vital data acquired via instrumented bicycles, include elevation, longitude, latitude, and timestamps as well. These GPS data offer opportunities for investigating various bicycle traffic-related parameters, such as traffic volume, common routes, origin-destination matrices, and waiting times, thus facilitating network planning, infrastructure development, measurement prioritization, monitoring, and evaluation. Additionally, other sensors are used in various research objectives. For example, in infrastructure research, sensors like the forward camera, accelerometer, gyroscope, speed sensor, and side camera can be employed, while research on human control may incorporate egocentric cameras and brake sensors, in addition to the aforementioned sensors.

The instrumented bicycles used in this study were designed by the Chair of Bicycle Traffic at Bergische Universität Wuppertal. These bicycles are equipped with two bicycle computers, the Garmin Edge 1040 and the Garmin Edge 130 Plus. The Garmin Edge 1040 features integrated sensors, including GPS, GLONASS, GALILEO, multi-band GNSS, a barometric altimeter, magnetometer, gyroscope, and accelerometer. The Garmin Edge 130 Plus includes sensors for GPS, GLONASS, GALILEO, a barometric altimeter, and an accelerometer. Additionally, the bicycles are fitted with other sensors, such as the Garmin Speed Sensor 2, the Garmin Cadence Sensor 2, and the Favero Assioma Duo power pedals. To collect heart rate data, cyclists wear the Garmin HRM-DualTM and the Polar OH1+ on their chests and arms, while audio data is recorded with a Dji Mic attached to the cyclists' bodies.
Once the bicycle was equipped with aforementioned sensors, cyclists‘ completed a predetermined track. The track is around 3.2 km, located around Griefflenberg Campus of Bergische Universität Wuppertal, the approximated average altitude of 246 meter (min 210 meter, max 274 meter). The track is located between the high and low lattitudes of 51° 24' 24"  and 51° 24' 29"  and high and low longitudes of 7° 15' 11" and 7° 15' 02". After completing their rides, the data was transferred from the bicycles to the Garmin bike computers via the ANT+ network standard and subsequently transferred to a computer using a USB cable. The rides were conducted by several riders of different age groups, genders, and with varying cycle types ( such as chassis, tyre sizes ).

The primary focus of the project is developing a data cleaning framework for instrumented bicycle data and the analysis of the data after cleaning. The initial objective is to assess the accuracy and consistency of GPS data. Once the data is cleaned and preprocessed, it become prepared to analysis and evaluation. This analysis involves the determination of cycling modes, such as uphill, downhill, or coasting, based on the cleaned data. The analysis also includes measuring slope factor of the track. An algorithm will be presented in the analysis section to segment cycling and non-cycling activities of each track. Cyclists' performance is then to be evaluated within each of these modes, considering cadence, power, and heart rate as key metrics.
